# Dynamodb-Guardium Logstash filter plug-in

This is a [Logstash](https://github.com/elastic/logstash) filter plug-in for the universal connector that is featured in IBM Security Guardium. It parses events and messages from the Amazon DynamoDB audit log into a [Guardium record](https://github.com/IBM/universal-connectors/blob/main/common/src/main/java/com/ibm/guardium/universalconnector/commons/structures/Record.java) instance (which is a standard structure made out of several parts). The information is then sent over to Guardium. Guardium records include the accessor (the person who tried to access the data), the session, data, and exceptions. If there are no errors, the data contains details about the query "construct". The construct details the main action (verb) and collections (objects) involved.

The plug-in is free and open-source (Apache 2.0). It can be used as a starting point to develop additional filter plug-ins for Guardium universal connector.


## 1. Configuring Amazon DynamoDB

In the AWS web interface, configure the service for Dynamodb.

### Procedure

1. Go to https://console.aws.amazon.com/
2. Click **Services** in the top left menu.
3. Underneath **All services**, click on **Database**.
4. On the right panel, click **DynamoDB**.
5. At the top right, click on the dropdown menu and select your region.
6. Click the orange **Create Table** button.
7. Enter a table name.
8. Enter a partition key.
9. Scroll down and click the orange **Create table** button.

## 2. Enabling audit logs 

There are different methods for auditing and logging. We will use CloudTrail for this example since it supports all required parameters. The following events are supported for auditing in AWS.


### Procedure

1. Click **Services** in the top left menu.
2. Underneath **All services**, click on **Management & Governance**.
3. On the right panel, click **Cloud Trail**.
4. Click **Create trail** button.
5. Provide a trail name under **Trail name**.
6. Under **Storage location**, verify that **Create new S3 bucket** is selected.
7. Under **Log file SSE-KMS encryption**, clear the Enabled box.
8. Click **Next**.
9. For **Event type**, select **Management events** and **Data events**.
10. Verify that **Read** and **Write** are selected for **API Activity**.
11. In the **Data Events** section, click **Switch to basic event selectors**.
12. Click **Continue** to confirm.
13. Click **Add data event type**.
14. Click **Data event source** and select **DynamoDB**.
15. Click **NEXT**.
16. Verify that all parameters shown are correct.
17. Click **Create trail**.


## 3. Viewing the logs on CloudTrail

### Procedure

1. Click the Service drop down.
2. On the `Recently visited` panel, click **CloudTrail**.
3. On the left panel, click **Trails**.
4. Click on **Bucket Name** under the Trail that was created above.
5. Traverse through the folders of the S3 bucket.
7. Log files will be displayed as .json.gz files.
8. The log file can be then opened in the browser in readable format or downloaded as per the requirement.

## 4. Exporting Log File Details Created on S3 to SQS using Event Notification
In order to achieve load balancing of audit logs between different collectors, the audit logs file details must be exported from
S3 to SQS.
To retrieve details of a recently added log file in S3, an event notification must be configured. 
This notification will be sent to an SQS queue, allowing us to capture information about the newly added log file in S3.


### Creating the SQS queue
The SQS queue created in these steps will receive messages from the Event Notification (configured in the next section). 
These messages, generated by monitoring the S3 bucket, will contain details of the recently added S3 log files.


#### Procedure
1. Go to https://console.aws.amazon.com/
2. Click **Services**
3. Search for SQS and click on **Simple Queue Services**
4. Click **Create Queue**.
5. Select the type as **Standard**.
6. Enter the name for the queue
7. Keep the rest of the default settings

### Creating a policy for the relevant IAM User
Perform the following steps for the IAM user who is accessing the SQS logs in Guardium:

#### Procedure
1. Go to https://console.aws.amazon.com/
2. Go to **IAM service** > **Policies** > **Create Policy**.
3. Select **service as SQS**.
4. Check the following checkboxes: 
   * **ListQueues**
   * **DeleteMessage**
   * **DeleteMessageBatch**
   * **GetQueueAttributes**
   *  **GetQueueUrl**
   * **ReceiveMessage**
   * **ChangeMessageVisibility**
   * **ChangeMessageVisibilityBatch**
5. In the resources, specify the ARN of the queue created in the above step.
6. Click **Review policy** and specify the policy name.
7. Click **Create policy**.
8. Assign the policy to the user
    1. Log in to the IAM console as an IAM user (https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/).
    2. Go to **Users** on the console and select the relevant IAM user to whom you want to give permissions.
       Click the **username**.
    3. In the **Permissions tab**, click **Add permissions**.
    4. Click **Attach existing policies directly**.
    5. Search for the policy created and check the checkbox next to it.
    6. Click **Next: Review**
    7. Click **Add permissions**

### Creating the Event Notification
The Event Notification will get triggered when a new Object is added to S3 bucket and will send the events to the SQS queue.
Follow the steps below to configure the Event Notification

#### Creating Access Policy to allow Notifications 
Update the Access Policy of the SQS queue to allow the Notification Service to send messages to the Queue

__*Procedure*__
1. Go to https://console.aws.amazon.com/
2. Go to **SQS** -> **Queues**
3. Click on the Queue that was created in the above step
4. Go to **Access Policy**
5. Click on **Edit**
6. Add the below details to the existing policy

```
{
      "Sid": "example-statement-ID",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Service": "s3.amazonaws.com"
      },
      "Action": "SQS:SendMessage",
      "Resource": "<Queue_ARN which is being edited>",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "aws:SourceAccount": "<AccountID>"
        },
        "ArnLike": {
          "aws:SourceArn": "<ARN of the S3 bucket>"
        }
      }
}
```


7. Click on **Save**


#### Create the Event Notification
__*Procedure*__
1. Go to https://console.aws.amazon.com/
2. Go to **Services**. Search for **S3**.
3. Click on the S3 bucket that is associated with the CloudTrail.
4. Click **Properties**
5. Navigate to **Event Notifications**
6. Click on **Create event notification**.
7. Enter **Event name**
8. Enter the **Prefix** though this is optional, this can be set to capture the specific traffic.
9. In **Event Types** Select **All object create events**.
10. In **Destination** Select **SQS queue**.
11. In **Specify SQS Queue** either **Choose from your SQS queues** option select the Queue name from drop down list or **Enter SQS queue ARN** enter the Queue ARN manually.
12. Click on **Save Changes**


### Limitations

1. The Dynamo DB plug-in does not support IPV6.
2. You may need to disable management events in order to avoid heavy traffic and data loss in Guardium. Disabling management events disables logging of the following events: 
CreateTable, DeleteTable, ListTable, UpdateTable, DescribeTable events.
3. The following fields couldn't be mapped with the Dynamo audit logs,
   1. Client HostName : Not available with audit logs so set as NA.


## 5. Configuring the Dynamodb filters in Guardium

The Guardium universal connector is the Guardium entry point for native audit logs. The universal connector identifies and parses received events, and then converts them to a standard Guardium format. The output of the universal connector is forwarded to the Guardium sniffer on the collector, for policy and auditing enforcements. Configure Guardium to read the native audit logs by customizing the dynamodb template.

### Authorizing outgoing traffic from AWS to Guardium

#### Procedure

1. Log in to the Guardium Collector's APIs.
2. Issue the following commands:
```
grdapi add_domain_to_universal_connector_allowed_domains domain=amazonaws.com
grdapi add_domain_to_universal_connector_allowed_domains domain=amazon.com
```

#### Before you begin
• Configure the policies you require. See [policies](https://github.com/IBM/universal-connectors/tree/main/docs#policies) for more information.

• You must have permission for the S-Tap Management role. The admin user includes this role by default.

• Download the [logstash-filter-dynamodb_guardium_plugin_filter.zip plug-in.](../logstash-filter-dynamodb_guardium_plugin_filter.zip)

### Procedure
1. On the collector, go to **Setup** > **Tools and Views** > **Configure Universal Connector**.
2. Enable the connector if it is already disabled, before proceeding to upload the UC.
3. Click **Upload File**, 
	* If the audit logs are to be fetched from S3SQS, select the
      1. [logstash-input-s3_sqs.zip](../../../input-plugin/logstash-input-s3sqs/InputS3SQSPackage/S3SQS/logstash-input-s3_sqs.zip) plug-in. After it is uploaded, click **OK**. This is specifically for S3SQS only. Other types of inputs do not require this file to be uploaded.
	* Select [logstash-filter-dynamodb_guardium_plugin_filter.zip](../logstash-filter-dynamodb_guardium_plugin_filter.zip) plug-in. After it is uploaded, click **OK**.
4. Click the Plus sign to open the Connector Configuration dialog box.
5. Type a name in the **Connector name** field.
6. If the audit logs are to be fetched from S3SQS, use the details from the [s3_sqs_input.conf](../DynamoDBOverS3SQS/s3_sqs_input.conf) file. Update the input section to add the details from the corresponding file's input part, omitting the keyword "input{" at the beginning and its corresponding "}" at the end. Please find more detail from [here](../../../input-plugin/logstash-input-s3sqs/README.md).
7. The "type" fields should match in input and filter configuration sections. This field should be unique for every individual connector added.
8. Click **Save**. Guardium validates the new connector, and enables the universal connector if it was
   disabled. After it is validated, it appears in the Configure Universal Connector page.


## Configuring the dynamodb filters in Guardium Insights

Depending on your environment, see the instructions for configuring the DynamoDB filters in one of the following 
locations,

* Guardium Insights SaaS, follow [this guide](https://github.com/IBM/universal-connectors/blob/main/docs/Guardium%20Insights/SaaS_1.0/UC_Configuration_GI.md).
* Guardium Insights on-premises, follow [this guide](https://github.com/IBM/universal-connectors/blob/main/docs/Guardium%20Insights/3.2.x/UC_Configuration_GI.md).

In the input configuration section, refer to the CloudWatch_logs section.
